feat: Updated academy tutorial for creating Actors (#665)
apify/apify-docs: sources/academy/platform/getting_started/creating_actors.md

---

There are several ways to create an Actor. You can create one from your own source code hosted in a Git repository or in your local machine, for example. But in this tutorial, we'll focus on the easiest method: selecting an Actor code template. We don't need to install any special software, and everything can be done directly in Apify Console using an Apify account.

## Choose the source {#choose-the-source}

Once you're in Apify Console, go to [Actors](https://console.apify.com/actors?asrc=developers_portal), and click on the **Create an Actor** button in the top right-hand corner.

![Create an Actor button](./images/create-new-actor.png)

You'll be presented with a page featuring two ways to get started with a new Actor.

1. Creating an Actor from existing source code (using Git providers or pushing the code from your local machine using Apify CLI)
2. Creating an Actor from a code template

| Existing source code             |  Code templates |
:-------------------------:|:-------------------------:
![Create and Actor from source code](./images/create-actor-from-source-code.png)  |  ![Create an Actor from code templates](./images/create-actor-from-templates.png)

> ## Creating Actor from existing source code {#existing-source-code}

Reviewer: I am not sure if this section really makes sense here in Academy at this point. I think that this belongs to docs or to some later section in Academy, for this reason -

![CleanShot 2023-08-08 at 11 00 59@2x](https://github.com/apify/apify-docs/assets/594801/cf9d6cc2-b116-4bf3-802e-cb636489744f)

Reviewer: I'd just move this redundant info to normal documentation and link it here as a hint "Btw you can also import existing Actor, learn about this here [LINK]" but I would not distract the user from the main point of this article which is a creation of an Actor from the template.

Author: I wasn't actually sure about this. The article is called **Creating Actors**, not **Creating Actors from the template** which is only the subset of how to create Actors (on Apify Platform).

What about if you read about Apify Platform and you want to deploy your scraper there and you don't know how... you Google "Apify Create Actor" and you can find this article. I think users would be quite lost without having it there.

I don't have a strong opinion on this but it still makes sense to me.

What do you think @dodaniel ?

Reviewer: I am not very opinionated about this so feel free to do it the way you want. Just try to think about Academy this way:

> Do not think about Academy as about the docs or a reference. It's none of these. It does not need to describe every possibility or feature as documentation. This mainly needs to be a super smooth tutorial where you get to the point without any extra overhead you don't need.

Author: I'm keeping it there for now and I agree with moving it to some later section in the academy in the future so there would be a special tutorial for creating Actors from existing code.

## Creating Actor from code template {#code-template}

There are several template options in Python, JavaScript, and TypeScript.

> You can select one from the list on this page or you can browse all the templates in the template library by clicking on the **View all templates** button in the right corner.

For example, let's choose the **Start with JavaScript** template and click on the template card.

![JavaScript template card](./images/create-actor-template-javascript-card.png)

You will end up on a template detail page where you can see the all the important information about the template - description, included features, used technologies, and what is the use-case of this template. More importantly, there is code preview and also instructions for how the code works.

![JavaScript template detail page](./images/create-actor-template-detail-page.png)

### Using the template in the Web IDE {#web-ide}

By clicking **Use this template** button you will create the Actor in Apify Console and you will be moved to the **Code** tab with the [Web IDE](/platform/actors/development/quick-start/web-ide) where you can see the code of the template and start editing it.

> > The Web IDE is a great tool for developing your Actor directly on the Apify Console without the need to install or use any other software.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The Web IDE is a great tool for developing your Actor directly in Apify Console without the need to install or use any other software.
```

![Web IDE](./images/create-actor-web-ide.png)

### Using the template locally {#local}

If you want to use the template locally, you can again use our [Apify CLI](/cli) to download the template to your local machine.

> Creating an Actor from a template locally is a great option if you want to develop your code using your local environment and IDE and then push the final solution back to the Apify Console.

> By clicking on the **Use locally** button, you will be presented with an instructions on how to the create an Actor from this template in your local environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you click on the **Use locally** button, you'll be presented with instructions on how to create an Actor from this template in your local environment.
```

With the Apify CLI installed, you can simply run following commands in your terminal:

```bash
apify create my-actor -t getting_started_node
```

```bash
cd my-actor
apify run
```

![Use the template locally](./images/create-actor-template-locally.png)

## Start with scraping single page {#scraping-single-page}

This template is a great starting point for web scraping as it extracts data from a single website. It uses [Axios](https://axios-http.com/docs/intro) for downloading the page content and [Cheerio](https://cheerio.js.org/) for parsing the HTML from the content.

> Let's see what exactly is inside of the **Start with JavaScript** template. The main logic of the template lives in the `src/main.js` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's see what's inside the **Start with JavaScript** template. The main logic of the template lives in the `src/main.js` file.
```

```js
// Axios - Promise based HTTP client for the browser and node.js (Read more at https://axios-http.com/docs/intro).
import axios from 'axios';
// Cheerio - The fast, flexible & elegant library for parsing and manipulating HTML and XML (Read more at https://cheerio.js.org/).
import * as cheerio from 'cheerio';
// Apify SDK - toolkit for building Apify Actors (Read more at https://docs.apify.com/sdk/js/).
import { Actor } from 'apify';

> // The init() call configures the Actor for its environment. It's recommended to start every Actor with an init().

Reviewer 3: Not sure now, do we have some section explaining why those methods are needed in more detail? 

This `init` call literally switches the underlying storage clients - when you are on platform, it will enable the apify client instead of the default memory storage. Without this, the code on the platform will remain using the memory storage, so it won't save anything to the apify dataset, nor will it respect the input from KVS.

Author: Same here - not related to the PR. 

But good question! I was actually looking for this some time ago and the best answer was coming from Python docs e.g.:

<img width="871" alt="Snímek obrazovky 2023-08-08 v 16 31 34" src="https://github.com/apify/apify-docs/assets/45016873/f00fb324-2855-462f-b9e2-9b733b2f7e1e">

I'm actually not sure if there is anything better. Maybe @mtrunkat would know?

Reviewer 3: We have it described in the crawlee docs here

https://crawlee.dev/docs/guides/apify-platform#running-crawlee-code-as-an-actor

Author: Yeah, but we should probably have it in Apify docs too, right? 😄

Reviewer 3: Yes, that's exactly my point.

Author: I created a ticket here https://github.com/apify/apify-docs/issues/670

await Actor.init();

// Structure of input is defined in input_schema.json

> const input = await Actor.getInput();

Reviewer 3: we were discussing this some time ago, the `getInput` can return `null`, and the new code does not respect that anyhow. we were adding `getInputOrThrow` exactly for this use case, although the elders didn't like it... :] 

I'd be in favor of adopting the new method, but I don't have any energy to argue about "things not in spec", so I guess feel free to keep it the way it is now... I can understand it might feel easier to read (but that's why we added the new method), but it's not correct and may end with a `TypeError` (when executed locally without having the `INPUT.json` present). Note that the code as is would also result in TS compilation failure.

The end goal is to handle the defaults from the input schema on SDK level, but since we are not there (and it will take some time)...

const { url } = input;

// Fetch the HTML content of the page.
const response = await axios.get(url);

// Parse the downloaded HTML with Cheerio to enable data extraction.
const $ = cheerio.load(response.data);

// Extract all headings from the page (tag name and text).
const headings = [];
$('h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6').each((i, element) => {
    const headingObject = {
        level: $(element).prop('tagName').toLowerCase(),
        text: $(element).text(),
    };
    console.log('Extracted heading', headingObject);
    headings.push(headingObject);
});

// Save headings to Dataset - a table-like storage.
await Actor.pushData(headings);

// Gracefully exit the Actor process. It's recommended to quit all Actors with an exit().
await Actor.exit();
```

The Actor takes the `url` from the input and then:

1. Sends a request to the URL.
2. Downloads the page's HTML content.
3. Extracts headings (H1 - H6) from the page.

> 4. Stores the extracted data

Reviewer 3: the comment here is resolved but the trailing dot is still not there

---
title: Creating Actors

> description: Build and run your very first Actor right on the Apify Console from a template. This lesson provides a hands-on experience with building and running an Actor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Build and run your very first Actor directly in Apify Console from a template. This lesson provides hands-on experience with building and running Actors.
```

sidebar_position: 2
slug: /getting-started/creating-actors
---

# Creating actors {#creating-actors}

> **This lesson offers a hands-on experience in building and running an Actor on the Apify Console using a template. By the end of it, you will build and run your first Actor using an Actor template.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**This lesson offers hands-on experience in building and running Actors in Apify Console using a template. By the end of it, you will be able to build and run your first Actor using an Actor template.**
```

---

> There are several ways to create an Actor. You can create an Actor from you own source code hosted in Git repository or in your local machine but the easiest method we'll focus on in this tutorial is by selecting an Actor code template. We do not need to install any special software, and everything can be done directly on the Apify Console using an Apify account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are several ways to create an Actor. You can create one from your own source code hosted in a Git repository or in your local machine, for example. But in this tutorial, we'll focus on the easiest method: selecting an Actor code template. We don't need to install any special software, and everything can be done directly in Apify Console using an Apify account.
```

## Choose the source {#choose-the-source}

> On the Apify Console, go to the [Actors](https://console.apify.com/actors?asrc=developers_portal), click on the **Create an Actor** button in the top right-hand corner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you're in Apify Console, go to [Actors](https://console.apify.com/actors?asrc=developers_portal), and click on the **Create an Actor** button in the top right-hand corner.
```

> ![Create and Actor button](./images/create-new-actor.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Create an Actor button](./images/create-new-actor.png)
```

> You will be presented with a page featuring two ways how to start with a new the Actor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You'll be presented with a page featuring two ways to get started with a new Actor.
```

> 1. Creating Actor from existing source code (using Git providers or pushing the code from your local machine using Apify CLI)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Creating an Actor from existing source code (using Git providers or pushing the code from your local machine using Apify CLI)
```

> 2. Creating Actor from a code template

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Creating an Actor from a code template
```

| Existing source code             |  Code templates |
:-------------------------:|:-------------------------:

> ![Create and Actor from source code](./images/create-actor-from-source-code.png)  |  ![Create an Actor from code templates](./images/create-actor-from-templates.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Create an Actor from source code](./images/create-actor-from-source-code.png)  |  ![Create an Actor from code templates](./images/create-actor-from-templates.png)
```

> ## Creating Actor from existing source code {#existing-source-code}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Creating an Actor from existing source code {#existing-source-code}
```

If you already have your code hosted by a Git provider, you can use it to create an Actor by linking the repository. If you use GitHub, you can use our [GitHub integration](/platform/integrations/github) to create an Actor from your public or private repository with just a few clicks. You can also use GitLab, Bitbucket or other Git providers or external repositories.

> ![Create an Actor from Git repository](./images/create-actor-git.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Create an Actor from a Git repository](./images/create-actor-git.png)
```

> You can also push your existing code from your local machine using [Apify CLI](/cli). This is useful when you  develop your code locally and then you want to push it to the Apify Console to run the code as an Actor in the cloud. For this option you'll need the [Apify CLI installed](/cli/docs/installation) on your machine. By clicking on the **Push your code using the Apify command-line interface (CLI)** button, you will be presented with an instructions on how to push your code to the Apify Console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also push your existing code from your local machine using the [Apify CLI](/cli). This is useful if you're developing your code locally and want to push it to Apify Console to run the code as an Actor in the cloud. For this option, you'll need the [Apify CLI installed](/cli/docs/installation) on your machine. When you click on the **Push your code using the Apify command-line interface (CLI)** button, you'll be presented with instructions on how to push your code to Apify Console.
```

![Push your code using the Apify CLI](./images/create-actor-cli.png)

> ## Creating Actor from code template {#code-template}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Creating an Actor from a code template {#code-template}
```

There are several template options in Python, JavaScript, and TypeScript. 

> You can select one from the list on this page or you can browse all the templates in the template library by clicking on the **View all templates** button in the right corner.

For example, let's choose the **Start with JavaScript** template and click on the template card. 

![JavaScript template card](./images/create-actor-template-javascript-card.png)

You will end up on a template detail page where you can see the all the important information about the template - description, included features, used technologies, and what is the use-case of this template. More importantly, there is code preview and also instructions for how the code works.

![JavaScript template detail page](./images/create-actor-template-detail-page.png)

> ### Using the template in the Web IDE {#web-ide}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Using a template in the Web IDE {#web-ide}
```

> By clicking **Use this template** button you will create the Actor in Apify Console and you will be moved to the **Code** tab with the [Web IDE](/platform/actors/development/quick-start/web-ide) where you can see the code of the template and start editing it. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By clicking the **Use this template** button you'll create the Actor in Apify Console, and you'll be moved to the **Code** tab with the [Web IDE](/platform/actors/development/quick-start/web-ide). There you can see the code of the template, and you can start editing it. 
```

> > The Web IDE is a great tool for developing your Actor directly on the Apify Console without the need to install or use any other software. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The Web IDE is a great tool for developing your Actor directly in Apify Console without the need to install or use any other software. 
```

![Web IDE](./images/create-actor-web-ide.png)

### Using the template locally {#local}

If you want to use the template locally, you can again use our [Apify CLI](/cli) to download the template to your local machine. 

> > Creating an Actor from a template locally is a great option if you want to develop your code using your local environment and IDE and then push the final solution back to the Apify Console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Creating an Actor from a template locally is a great option if you want to develop your code using your local environment and IDE and then push the final solution back to Apify Console.
```

> By clicking on the **Use locally** button, you will be presented with an instructions on how to the create an Actor from this template in your local environment. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you click on the **Use locally** button, you'll be presented with instructions on how to create an Actor from this template in your local environment. 
```

> With the Apify CLI installed, you can simply run following commands in your terminal:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the Apify CLI installed, you can simply run the following commands in your terminal:
```

```bash
apify create my-actor -t getting_started_node
```

```bash
cd my-actor
apify run
```

![Use the template locally](./images/create-actor-template-locally.png)

> ## Start with scraping single page {#scraping-single-page}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Start with scraping a single page {#scraping-single-page}
```

> This template is a great starting point for web scraping as it extracts data from a single website. It uses [Axios](https://axios-http.com/docs/intro) for downloading the page content and [Cheerio](https://cheerio.js.org/) for parsing the HTML from the content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This template is a great starting point for web scraping as it extracts data from a single web page. It uses [Axios](https://axios-http.com/docs/intro) for downloading the page content and [Cheerio](https://cheerio.js.org/) for parsing the HTML from the content.
```

> Let's see what exactly is inside of the **Start with JavaScript** template. The main logic of the template lives in the `src/main.js` file. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's see what's inside the **Start with JavaScript** template. The main logic of the template lives in the `src/main.js` file. 
```

import { Actor } from "apify";

// The init() call configures the Actor for its environment. It's recommended to start every Actor with an init().
await Actor.init();

// Structure of input is defined in input_schema.json
const input = await Actor.getInput();
const { url } = input;

// Fetch the HTML content of the page.
const response = await axios.get(url);

// Parse the downloaded HTML with Cheerio to enable data extraction.
const $ = cheerio.load(response.data);

// Extract all headings from the page (tag name and text).
const headings = [];
$("h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6").each((i, element) => {
    const headingObject = {
        level: $(element).prop("tagName").toLowerCase(),
        text: $(element).text(),
    };
    console.log("Extracted heading", headingObject);
    headings.push(headingObject);
});

// Save headings to Dataset - a table-like storage.
await Actor.pushData(headings);

// Gracefully exit the Actor process. It's recommended to quit all Actors with an exit().
await Actor.exit();

``` 
The Actor takes the `url` from the input and then:

1. Sends a request to the URL.
2. Downloads the page's HTML content.
3. Extracts headings (H1 - H6) from the page.

> 4. Stores the extracted data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Stores the extracted data.
```

> The extracted data is stored in the [Dataset](/platform/storage/dataset) where you can preview it and download. We'll show how to do that later in [Run the Actor](#run-the-actor) section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The extracted data is stored in the [Dataset](/platform/storage/dataset), where you can preview and download it. We'll show how to do that later in the [Run the Actor](#run-the-actor) section.
```

> > Feel free to play around with the code and add some more features to it. For example, you can extract all the links from the page or extract all the images or completely change the logic of this template. Just keep in mind that this template uses [input schema](/academy/deploying-your-code/input-schema) defined in the `.actor/input_schema.json` file and linked to the `.actor/actor.json`. If you want to change the input schema, you need to change it in those files as well. Learn more about the Actor input and output [in the next page](/academy/getting-started/inputs-outputs).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Feel free to play around with the code and add some more features to it. For example, you can extract all the links from the page, scrape all the images, or completely change the logic of this template. Just keep in mind that the template uses the [input schema](/academy/deploying-your-code/input-schema) defined in the `.actor/input_schema.json` file and linked to the `.actor/actor.json`. If you want to change the input schema, you need to change it in those files as well. Learn more about the Actor input and output [on the next page](/academy/getting-started/inputs-outputs).
```

> ## Build the Actor 🧱 {#build-an-actor}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Build an Actor 🧱 {#build-an-actor}
```

> In order to run the Actor, you need to [build](/platform/actors/development/builds-and-runs/builds) it first. Click on the **Build** button at the bottom of the page or **Build now** button right under the code editor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to run an Actor, you need to [build](/platform/actors/development/builds-and-runs/builds) it first. Click on the **Build** button at the bottom of the page or the **Build now** button right under the code editor.
```

![Build the actor](./images/build-actor.png)

After you've clicked the **Build** button, it'll take around 5-10 seconds to complete the build. You'll know it's finished when you see a green **Start** button.

![Start button](./images/start.png)

> #### Fill the input {#fill-input}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Fill in the input {#fill-input}
```

> And now we are ready to run the Actor. But before we do that, let's give the Actor some input by going to the `Input` tab. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And now we're ready to run the Actor. But before we do that, let's give the Actor some input by going to the `Input` tab. 
```

> The input tab is where you can provide the Actor with some meaningful input. In this case, we'll be providing the Actor with a URL to scrape. For now, we'll use the prefilled value of [Apify website](https://apify.com/) (`https://apify.com/`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The input tab is where you can provide the Actor with some meaningful input. In this case, we'll be providing the Actor with a URL to scrape. For now, we'll use the prefilled value, which is the [Apify website](https://apify.com/) (`https://apify.com/`).
```

> You can change the website you want extract the data from by simply changing the URL in the input field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can change the website from which you want to extract the data by simply changing the URL in the input field.
```

![Input tab](./images/actor-input-tab.png)

## Run the Actor {#run-the-actor}

> Once you have provided the Actor with some URL you want to extract the data from, click **Start** button and wait a few seconds. You should see the Actor run logs in the **Last run** tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you've provided the Actor with some URL from which you want to extract data, click the **Start** button and wait a few seconds. You should see the Actor run logs in the **Last run** tab.
```

![Actor run logs](./images/actor-run.png)

After the Actor finishes, you can preview or download the extracted data simply by clicking on the **Export X results** button.

![Export results](./images/actor-run-dataset.png)

And that's it! You've just created your first Actor and extracted data from a website 🎉.

> ## Don't get stuck with tips 💡 {#dont-get-stuck-with-tips}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Getting stuck? Check out the tips 💡 {#dont-get-stuck-with-tips}
```

Reviewer 2: {#dont-get-stuck-with-tips} isn't right. Maybe you could replace this with {#get-unstuck-with-tips} or {#get-help-with-tips}

> ## Getting stuck? Check out the tips 💡 {#dont-get-stuck-with-tips}

Author: ```suggestion
## Getting stuck? Check out the tips 💡 {#get-help-with-tips}
```

> If you ever get stuck, you can always click on the **Tips** button in the top right corner of the page. It will show you a list of tips that are relevant to the Actor development.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you ever get stuck, you can always click on the **Tips** button in the top right corner of the page. It will show you a list of tips that are relevant to the Actor's development.
```
